---
layout: post
title:      "React Summit 2020"
date:       2020-11-25 16:36:10 +0000
permalink:  react_summit_2020
---


This year has been full of many challenges, but along with it have come some wonderful opportunities. One such opportunity has been the ability to attend some conferences virtually.

One such recent conference that I had the pleasure of attending was the React Summit (aka React Amsterdam). There they had a lineup of many interesting speakers on a variety of topics. I know that for me personally the talk by Kent C. Dodds on productivity and the talk by Jen Luker on building applications to be accessible to all peoples were ones that I particularly enjoyed.

Out of all the different talks and sessions at that conference though, I would like to focus on the Open Source (OS) Awards. This is a particular favorite of mine as it is a wonderful opportunity to see what projects have come about and are being used as of late. There are five categories to the awards—Breakthrough of the Year, The Most Exciting Use of Technology, Fun Side Project of the Year, The Most Impactful Contribution to the community, and Productivity Booster.

Each category has interesting features, however I appreciated the category of most impactful contribution to the community, as it featured some projects that were not only well designed and built, but can also include a component of social impact. I also enjoy the category of productivity booster, as there are some projects that can significantly improve one’s productivity and efficacy.

Here are projects that I’m interested in and plan to include in upcoming projects of mine:
React Hook Form - the winner of the awards and an interesting way to approach components that are present in most projects
reacttime - a debugging tool for React as a Chrome extension
Blitz.js - A fullstack React framework that could be fun to try out
React Query - Described as hooks for fetching, caching and updating asynchronous data in React, and may be a helpful addition to projects
Chakra UI - Described as Simple, Modular & Accessible UI Components for your React Applications, and had good feedback from those who have used it

If you are interested in looking at all of the nominees, here is the webpage: [https://osawards.com/react/#nominees](https://osawards.com/react/#nominees)

Share in the comments which nominees interested you the most and which ones you look forward to exploring further and including in your next project.
